DIVD-2022-00054 (#467)
DIVD-NL/web-csirt: _cases/2022/DIVD-2022-00054.md

---
layout: case
title: ProxyNotShell - Microsoft Exchange SSRF and RCE
author: Max van der Horst
lead: Max van der Horst
status: Open
excerpt: DIVD is scanning for parties vulnerable to CVE-2022-41040 and CVE-2022-41082 (nicknamed ProxyNotShell).
researchers:
- Ralph Horn
- Pepijn van der Stap
- Kaj Koole
cves: 
- CVE-2022-41040
- CVE-2022-41082
product: Microsoft Exchange
versions: Exchange Server 2013, 2016 and 2019.
recommendation: "As long as there is no patch available, it is recommended to apply one of the mitigations suggested by Microsoft. Please find the Security Advisory at the end of the casefile."
workaround: Either apply a URL Rewrite Rule as suggested by the mitigations in the Security Advisory or disable remote PowerShell access for non-administrators.
start: 2022-09-30
end:
timeline:
- start: 2022-09-30
  end:
  event: "DIVD takes notice of published write-up on ProxyNotShell."
- start: 2022-10-04
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts scanning for vulnerable Exchange instances."
- start: 2022-10-05
  end:
  event: "First version of this case file."

---

## Summary

> On September 30th 2022, GTSC Vietnam published a writeup on a discovered campaign utilising a new RCE zeroday in Microsoft Exchange. Shortly after, Microsoft published a security advisory alongside CVE IDs CVE-2022-41040 and CVE-2022-41082 with CVSS scores 8.8 and 6.3, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On September 30th 2022, GTSC Vietnam published a write-up on a discovered campaign utilizing a zero-day vulnerability in Microsoft Exchange. Shortly after, Microsoft published a security advisory alongside CVE IDs CVE-2022-41040 and CVE-2022-41082 with CVSS scores 8.8 and 6.3, respectively.
```

This vulnerability allows authenticated attackers to achieve Remote Command Execution when Exchange PowerShell is accessible. An attacker may achieve this through chaining CVE-2022-41040, an SSRF vulnerability, with CVE-2022-41082, which is the RCE vulnerability.

Exchange Online customers are protected against these attacks. Customers running an on-premises installation of Exchange Server 2013, 2016 and 2019 are advised to apply one of the suggested mitigations in the Security Advisory. 

> So far, Microsoft has observed a limited amount of targeted attacks using these vulnerabilities. Because both vulnerabilities require authentication, mass-exploitation is hard. Regardless, it is advised to mitigate these vulnerabilities as soon as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far, Microsoft has observed a limited amount of targeted attacks using these vulnerabilities. Because both vulnerabilities require authentication, mass-exploitation is hard. Regardless, it is advised to mitigate these vulnerabilities as soon as possible as exploitation could lead to the compromise of integrity, availability and confidentiality on systems.  
```

## What you can do

Companies running Exchange Server 2013, 2016 or 2019 (on-premises) should mitigate these vulnerabilities as soon as possible using the mitigations suggested in the advisory. Furthermore, it is important to keep a close eye on published patches for these issues.

If you have been running Exchange Server, we recommend to check your server logs for any suspicious activity.

> The suggested mitigations by Microsoft include disabling remote access to PowerShell for non-administrator users or using a URL Rewrite Rule. For guidance on implementing these mitigations, view the Security Advisory below. Moreover, detection rules for both vulnerabilities have been provided by Microsoft. For these, view Microsoft's blogpost on this topic using the URL below. 

Reviewer 2: * `or` or `and`?
* Would like the advisory in this sentence instead of referring to below.

## What we are doing

> We are actively scanning the internet for vulnerable Exchange instances and will notify system owners via the listed abuse contacts. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are actively scanning the internet for Exchange instances that do not have the mitigations applied and will notify system owners via the listed abuse contacts. 
```
